#summary Installation instructions for the JSR 311 plugin for Grails.
#labels Featured

<wiki:toc/>

=Prerequisites=

Using the grails-jaxrs plugin requires a Grails 1.1.1 (or higher) installation. For instructions how to download and install Grails refer to the [http://grails.org/doc/1.1.1/guide/2.%20Getting%20Started.html#2.1%20Downloading%20and%20Installing Grails reference documentation section 2.1]. The following table shows which grails-jaxrs version to use for which Grails version


|| *Grails version* || *grails-jaxrs version* ||
||1.1.1 or higher||0.1 - 0.3||
||1.2.0 or higher||0.4||
||1.3.7 or higher||0.5-m1||
||1.3.7 or higher||0.5 development snapshot||

  * The latest stable version of grails-jaxrs is 0.4 and can be obtained from the [http://www.grails.org/plugin/home Grails Plugin Repository]. 
  * The first milestone of the current development version (0.5-m1) can be downloaded from [http://code.google.com/p/grails-jaxrs/downloads/detail?name=grails-jaxrs-0.5-m1.zip here] and must be [#From_a_local_plugin_binary installed manually]. 
  * To get the latest 0.5 development snapshot, [#Sources check out the sources, build the plugin] and [#From_a_local_plugin_binary install it manually].

=Getting the plugin= 

*Note:* If you want to install the plugin directly from the [http://www.grails.org/plugin/home Grails Plugin Repository] you can skip this section and go directly to the section [#Installing_the_plugin Installing the plugin].

==Binaries==

The plugin binaries can be downloaded from the project's [http://code.google.com/p/grails-jaxrs/downloads/list download section].

==Sources==

If you want to build the plugin from its sources clone the [http://github.com/krasserm/grails-jaxrs grails-jaxrs repository] with

{{{
git clone git://github.com/krasserm/grails-jaxrs.git
}}}

and change to the created {{{grails-jaxrs}}} directory. Optionally, run the unit and integration tests by entering 

{{{
grails test-app
}}} 

on the command line. To create a binary package of the plugin enter

{{{
grails package-plugin
}}} 

The filename of the created plugin is {{{grails-jaxrs-<version>.zip}}} where {{{<version>}}} is the current development version. To build older versions of the plugin from its sources use one of the [http://grails-jaxrs.googlecode.com/svn/tags grails-jaxrs tags].

=Installing the plugin= 

If you want to use the grails-jaxrs plugin in a Grails application you need to install it first. The plugin can be either be installed directly from the Grails plugin repository or from a local package that has been download before or built from the sources.

==From the Grails plugin repository==

To install the plugin from the Grails plugin repository go to your project's root directory and enter

{{{
grails install-plugin jaxrs
}}} 

This will install the latest released version of the grails-jaxrs plugin.

==From a local plugin binary==

If you downloaded or built the plugin as described in [#Getting_the_plugin Getting the plugin] go to your project's root directory and enter

{{{
grails install-plugin /path/to/grails-jaxrs-<version>.zip
}}} 

where {{{/path/to}}} needs to be replaced by the absolute or relative path to the {{{grails-jaxrs-<version>.zip}}} file.